In this section, we'll discuss average time on page
and average session duration metrics in Google Analytics.
We'll want to keep in mind the concept of scope.
Average time on page is
a hit scope metric relating specifically to page views and average session duration
is a session scope metric.
This will determine which reports these two metrics appear in.
We're back in the merchandise store account in the all pages report of the Main View.
Note that the average time on page metric appears in this report,
average time on page related to page hits.
However, if we navigate to the landing pages report,
notice that average session duration appears.
We can report on average session duration for
each landing page because each landing page begins with a session.
Therefore, we can report session scope metrics for landing pages.
If we navigate to audience overview,
we also see average session duration here for all sessions within the view.
If we navigate to other reports such as the channels report,
we see average session duration reported here and if
we navigated to one of the technology reports,
lets say browser and OS,
we would also see average session duration here reported as a session scope metric.